README.md, before:

# GHCVM Hackage

This repository contains a set of patches for particular packages from Hackage that cannot be built out-of-the-box with GHCVM/CabalVM.

**Table of Contents**

- [Package Categorization](#package-categorization)
  - [Supported Packages](#supported-packages)
  - [Unsupported Packages](#unsupported-packages)
  - [Built-in Packages](#built-in-packages)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Patching a Library](#patching-a-library)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Patching](#patching)
  - [Viewing a Patch](#viewing-a-patch)

## Package Categorization

### Overview

We have categorized the packages from Hackage below in relation to GHCVM support. If a package from Hackage has not been listed here, it means no one has tried to build it and categorize it.

If you would like to have a given package/version made compatible with GHCVM, you can:

- Submit an [issue](https://github.com/rahulmutt/ghcvm-hackage/issues/new)
- Ask us on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/rahulmutt/ghcvm)

### Supported Packages
These packages are supported by GHCVM.
- [Adaptive-0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/Adaptive-0.1)
- [agum-2.6](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/agum-2.6)
- [array-0.5.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/array-0.5.1.1)
- [array-utils-0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/array-utils-0.3)
- [base-orphans-0.5.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-orphans-0.5.4)
- [base-prelude-1.0.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-prelude-1.0.1.1)
- [basic-lens-0.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/basic-lens-0.0.0)
- [binary-search-1.0.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/binary-search-1.0.0.3)
- [Binpack-0.4.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/Binpack-0.4.1)
- [containers-0.5.8.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/containers-0.5.8.1)
- [data-default-class-0.1.2.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/data-default-class-0.1.2.0)
- [data-default-instances-containers-0.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/data-default-instances-containers-0.0.1)
- [data-default-instances-dlist-0.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/data-default-instances-dlist-0.0.1)
- [deepseq-1.4.2.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/deepseq-1.4.2.0)
- [disjoint-sets-st-0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/disjoint-sets-st-0.1)
- [dlist-0.8.0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/dlist-0.8.0.2)
- [dom-lt-0.1.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/dom-lt-0.1.3)
- [DecisionTree-0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/DecisionTree-0.0)
- [fibonacci-0.2.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fibonacci-0.2.0.1)
- [fingertree-0.1.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fingertree-0.1.1.0)
- [fingertree-psqueue-0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fingertree-psqueue-0.3)
- [fingertree-tf-0.1.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fingertree-tf-0.1.0.0)
- [fgl-5.5.3.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fgl-5.5.3.0)
  - NOTE: Gives `Ignoring ANN annotation, because this is a stage-1 compiler or doesn't support GHCi`
- [fmlist-0.9](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fmlist-0.9)
- [garsia-wachs-1.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/garsia-wachs-1.2)
- [GenericPretty-1.2.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/GenericPretty-1.2.1)
- [gdiff-1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/gdiff-1.1)
- [gray-code-0.3.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/gray-code-0.3.1)
- [ghc-boot-th-8.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/ghc-boot-th-8.0.1)
- [graph-matchings-0.1.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/graph-matchings-0.1.0.0)
- [graph-wrapper-0.2.5.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/graph-wrapper-0.2.5.1)
- [groups-0.4.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/groups-0.4.0.0)
- [heap-1.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/heap-1.0.3)
- [heaps-0.3.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/heaps-0.3.3)
- [hetero-map-0.21](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/hetero-map-0.21)
- [hgal-2.0.0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/hgal-2.0.0.2)
- [HoleyMonoid-0.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/HoleyMonoid-0.1.1)
- [interval-1.20160821](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/interval-1.20160821)
- [lazy-io-0.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/lazy-io-0.1.0)
- [labeled-tree-1.0.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/labeled-tree-1.0.0.0)
- [lca-0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/lca-0.3)
- [list-extras-0.4.1.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/list-extras-0.4.1.4)
- [logict-0.6.0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/logict-0.6.0.2)
- [loop-0.3.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/loop-0.3.0)
- [map-syntax-0.2.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/map-syntax-0.2.0.1)
- [meldable-heap-2.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/meldable-heap-2.0.3)
- [microlens-0.4.7.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/microlens-0.4.7.0)
- [microlens-mtl-0.1.10.0](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/microlens-mtl-0.1.10.0)
- [mmorph-1.0.6](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/mmorph-1.0.6)
- [monad-absorbing-0.1.0.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/monad-absorbing-0.1.0.4)
- [monad-control-1.0.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/monad-control-1.0.1.0)
- [monads-tf-0.1.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/monads-tf-0.1.0.3)
- [mtl-2.2.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/mtl-2.2.1)
- [multiset-0.3.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/multiset-0.3.3)
- [nested-sequence-0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/nested-sequence-0.2)
- [nested-sets-0.0.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/nested-sets-0.0.1.1)
- [newtype-0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/newtype-0.2)
- [newtype-generics-0.4.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/newtype-generics-0.4.1)
- [patch-combinators-0.2.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/patch-combinators-0.2.2)
- [pqueue-1.3.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/pqueue-1.3.1.1)
- [PSQueue-1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/PSQueue-1.1)
- [prelude-extras-0.4.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/prelude-extras-0.4.0.3)
- [pretty-1.1.3.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/pretty-1.1.3.4)
- [prettyclass-1.0.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/prettyclass-1.0.0.0)
- [primes-0.2.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/primes-0.2.1.0)
- [queue-0.1.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/queue-0.1.2)
- [relacion-0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/relacion-0.1)
- [randproc-0.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/randproc-0.4)
- [safe-0.3.9](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/safe-0.3.9)
- [split-0.2.3.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/split-0.2.3.1)
- [stable-marriage-0.1.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/stable-marriage-0.1.1.0)
- [stm-2.4.4.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/stm-2.4.4.1)
- [tagged-0.8.5](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/tagged-0.8.5)
- [template-haskell-2.11.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/template-haskell-2.11.0.0)
- [transformers-0.5.2.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/transformers-0.5.2.0)
- [transformers-base-0.4.4](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/transformers-base-0.4.4)
- [transformers-compat-0.5.1.4](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/transformers-compat-0.5.1.4)
- [tree-fun-0.8.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/tree-fun-0.8.1.0)
- [type-level-sets-0.8.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/type-level-sets-0.8.0.0)
- [unification-fd-0.10.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/unification-fd-0.10.0.1)
- [union-find-0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/union-find-0.2)
- [union-find-array-0.1.0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/union-find-array-0.1.0.2)

### Unsupported Packages
These packages are heavy on FFI dependencies and don't make sense in the context of the JVM, hence no effort will be made to port them.
- None for now

### Built-in Packages
These packages have special meaning in the GHCVM compiler and hence are provided upon installation.
- [base-4.8.2.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-4.8.2.0)
- [integer-0.5.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/integer-gmp-0.5.1.0)
  - *NOTE*: Due to the drastic differences between the `Integer` implementations,
            the public API between the corresponding GHC package is slightly different.
- [ghc-prim-0.4.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/ghc-prim-0.4.0.0)
  - *NOTE*: Due to the introduction of new primitives for GHCVM,
            the public API between the corresponding GHC package is slightly different.

## Contributing

### Patching a Library

Suppose that you find a library you want to patch, say `somepackage-0.1.2.3`.

#### Prerequisites
If you have already forked this repository, the skip to step 3.

1. Fork this repository.

2. Clone the forked repository & update the `master` branch.
  ```
  $ git clone http://github.org/your-name-here/ghcvm-hackage
  ```

3. Checkout the `master` branch and pull any changes.
  ```
  $ git checkout master
  $ git pull
  ```

4. Create a new branch with the same name as the package.
  ```
  $ git checkout -b somepackage
  ```

#### Patching

1. Download the `somepackage-0.1.2.3.tar.gz` tarball from Hackage.

2. Initialize a git repository and make an initial commit.
  ```
  $ git init
  $ git add .
  $ git commit -m "First"
  ```

3. Build the package.
  ```
  $ cabalvm build
  ```

4. Apply the desired changes and go back to step 3 as long as the build fails.

5. Once the build succeeds, make a commit.
  ```
  $ git add .
  $ git commit -m "Patched"
  ```

6. Create a patch.
   ```
   $ git format-patch HEAD~ --stdout > somepackage-0.1.2.3.patch
   ```

7. If you have changed the `.cabal` file of the package in your patch , make a copy and rename it from `somepackage.cabal` to `somepackage-0.1.2.3.cabal`.

8. Copy the patch file and the cabal file (if changed) to the `patches` directory in your local clone of your fork of the `ghcvm-hackage` repository.

9. In your `ghcvm-hackage` repository,
   ```
   $ git commit -m "Patched somepackage-0.1.2.3"
   $ git push origin
   ```
10. Submit a pull request to this repository for review.

### Viewing a Patch

When you want to see how a library (say `somepackage-0.1.2.3`) looks with the patches applied:

1. Download the source distribution of that package from Hacakage and extract it.

2. Initialize a git repository in it and apply the patch (after copying it to the directory).
  ```
  $ git init
  $ git apply somepackage-0.1.2.3.patch
  ```

You may wish to modify an existing patch. If so, apply the steps above after Step 2 in [Patching a Library/Patching](#patching).

Commit message:

Add cabalvm instruction
When I initially read the README file, I installed the package by
manually downloading the tar file and then applying the patch and then
finally doing a manual installation of it. This instruction will likely
help other peoples from falling into the same trap. Also we can close
issue #1.

README.md, after:

# GHCVM Hackage

This repository contains a set of patches for particular packages from
Hackage that cannot be built out-of-the-box with GHCVM/CabalVM. To
install the listed packages here, you have to use `cabalvm`
executable. To install a package, you have to do:

``` haskell
cabalvm install <package-name>
```

`cabalvm` will take care of downloading the tar file, patching it
additionally (if required) and installing (duh!) it.

**Table of Contents**

- [Package Categorization](#package-categorization)
  - [Supported Packages](#supported-packages)
  - [Unsupported Packages](#unsupported-packages)
  - [Built-in Packages](#built-in-packages)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Patching a Library](#patching-a-library)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Patching](#patching)
  - [Viewing a Patch](#viewing-a-patch)

## Package Categorization

### Overview

We have categorized the packages from Hackage below in relation to GHCVM support. If a package from Hackage has not been listed here, it means no one has tried to build it and categorize it.

If you would like to have a given package/version made compatible with GHCVM, you can:

- Submit an [issue](https://github.com/rahulmutt/ghcvm-hackage/issues/new)
- Ask us on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/rahulmutt/ghcvm)

### Supported Packages
These packages are supported by GHCVM.
- [Adaptive-0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/Adaptive-0.1)
- [agum-2.6](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/agum-2.6)
- [array-0.5.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/array-0.5.1.1)
- [array-utils-0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/array-utils-0.3)
- [base-orphans-0.5.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-orphans-0.5.4)
- [base-prelude-1.0.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-prelude-1.0.1.1)
- [basic-lens-0.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/basic-lens-0.0.0)
- [binary-search-1.0.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/binary-search-1.0.0.3)
- [Binpack-0.4.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/Binpack-0.4.1)
- [containers-0.5.8.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/containers-0.5.8.1)
- [data-default-class-0.1.2.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/data-default-class-0.1.2.0)
- [data-default-instances-containers-0.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/data-default-instances-containers-0.0.1)
- [data-default-instances-dlist-0.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/data-default-instances-dlist-0.0.1)
- [deepseq-1.4.2.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/deepseq-1.4.2.0)
- [disjoint-sets-st-0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/disjoint-sets-st-0.1)
- [dlist-0.8.0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/dlist-0.8.0.2)
- [dom-lt-0.1.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/dom-lt-0.1.3)
- [DecisionTree-0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/DecisionTree-0.0)
- [fibonacci-0.2.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fibonacci-0.2.0.1)
- [fingertree-0.1.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fingertree-0.1.1.0)
- [fingertree-psqueue-0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fingertree-psqueue-0.3)
- [fingertree-tf-0.1.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fingertree-tf-0.1.0.0)
- [fgl-5.5.3.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fgl-5.5.3.0)
  - NOTE: Gives `Ignoring ANN annotation, because this is a stage-1 compiler or doesn't support GHCi`
- [fmlist-0.9](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/fmlist-0.9)
- [garsia-wachs-1.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/garsia-wachs-1.2)
- [GenericPretty-1.2.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/GenericPretty-1.2.1)
- [gdiff-1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/gdiff-1.1)
- [gray-code-0.3.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/gray-code-0.3.1)
- [ghc-boot-th-8.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/ghc-boot-th-8.0.1)
- [graph-matchings-0.1.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/graph-matchings-0.1.0.0)
- [graph-wrapper-0.2.5.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/graph-wrapper-0.2.5.1)
- [groups-0.4.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/groups-0.4.0.0)
- [heap-1.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/heap-1.0.3)
- [heaps-0.3.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/heaps-0.3.3)
- [hetero-map-0.21](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/hetero-map-0.21)
- [hgal-2.0.0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/hgal-2.0.0.2)
- [HoleyMonoid-0.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/HoleyMonoid-0.1.1)
- [interval-1.20160821](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/interval-1.20160821)
- [lazy-io-0.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/lazy-io-0.1.0)
- [labeled-tree-1.0.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/labeled-tree-1.0.0.0)
- [lca-0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/lca-0.3)
- [list-extras-0.4.1.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/list-extras-0.4.1.4)
- [logict-0.6.0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/logict-0.6.0.2)
- [loop-0.3.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/loop-0.3.0)
- [map-syntax-0.2.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/map-syntax-0.2.0.1)
- [meldable-heap-2.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/meldable-heap-2.0.3)
- [microlens-0.4.7.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/microlens-0.4.7.0)
- [microlens-mtl-0.1.10.0](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/microlens-mtl-0.1.10.0)
- [mmorph-1.0.6](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/mmorph-1.0.6)
- [monad-absorbing-0.1.0.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/monad-absorbing-0.1.0.4)
- [monad-control-1.0.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/monad-control-1.0.1.0)
- [monads-tf-0.1.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/monads-tf-0.1.0.3)
- [mtl-2.2.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/mtl-2.2.1)
- [multiset-0.3.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/multiset-0.3.3)
- [nested-sequence-0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/nested-sequence-0.2)
- [nested-sets-0.0.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/nested-sets-0.0.1.1)
- [newtype-0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/newtype-0.2)
- [newtype-generics-0.4.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/newtype-generics-0.4.1)
- [patch-combinators-0.2.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/patch-combinators-0.2.2)
- [pqueue-1.3.1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/pqueue-1.3.1.1)
- [PSQueue-1.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/PSQueue-1.1)
- [prelude-extras-0.4.0.3](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/prelude-extras-0.4.0.3)
- [pretty-1.1.3.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/pretty-1.1.3.4)
- [prettyclass-1.0.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/prettyclass-1.0.0.0)
- [primes-0.2.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/primes-0.2.1.0)
- [queue-0.1.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/queue-0.1.2)
- [relacion-0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/relacion-0.1)
- [randproc-0.4](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/randproc-0.4)
- [safe-0.3.9](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/safe-0.3.9)
- [split-0.2.3.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/split-0.2.3.1)
- [stable-marriage-0.1.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/stable-marriage-0.1.1.0)
- [stm-2.4.4.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/stm-2.4.4.1)
- [tagged-0.8.5](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/tagged-0.8.5)
- [template-haskell-2.11.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/template-haskell-2.11.0.0)
- [transformers-0.5.2.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/transformers-0.5.2.0)
- [transformers-base-0.4.4](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/transformers-base-0.4.4)
- [transformers-compat-0.5.1.4](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/transformers-compat-0.5.1.4)
- [tree-fun-0.8.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/tree-fun-0.8.1.0)
- [type-level-sets-0.8.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/type-level-sets-0.8.0.0)
- [unification-fd-0.10.0.1](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/unification-fd-0.10.0.1)
- [union-find-0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/union-find-0.2)
- [union-find-array-0.1.0.2](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/union-find-array-0.1.0.2)

### Unsupported Packages
These packages are heavy on FFI dependencies and don't make sense in the context of the JVM, hence no effort will be made to port them.
- None for now

### Built-in Packages
These packages have special meaning in the GHCVM compiler and hence are provided upon installation.
- [base-4.8.2.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-4.8.2.0)
- [integer-0.5.1.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/integer-gmp-0.5.1.0)
  - *NOTE*: Due to the drastic differences between the `Integer` implementations,
            the public API between the corresponding GHC package is slightly different.
- [ghc-prim-0.4.0.0](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/ghc-prim-0.4.0.0)
  - *NOTE*: Due to the introduction of new primitives for GHCVM,
            the public API between the corresponding GHC package is slightly different.

## Contributing

### Patching a Library

Suppose that you find a library you want to patch, say `somepackage-0.1.2.3`.

#### Prerequisites
If you have already forked this repository, the skip to step 3.

1. Fork this repository.

2. Clone the forked repository & update the `master` branch.
  ```
  $ git clone http://github.org/your-name-here/ghcvm-hackage
  ```

3. Checkout the `master` branch and pull any changes.
  ```
  $ git checkout master
  $ git pull
  ```

4. Create a new branch with the same name as the package.
  ```
  $ git checkout -b somepackage
  ```

#### Patching

1. Download the `somepackage-0.1.2.3.tar.gz` tarball from Hackage.

2. Initialize a git repository and make an initial commit.
  ```
  $ git init
  $ git add .
  $ git commit -m "First"
  ```

3. Build the package.
  ```
  $ cabalvm build
  ```

4. Apply the desired changes and go back to step 3 as long as the build fails.

5. Once the build succeeds, make a commit.
  ```
  $ git add .
  $ git commit -m "Patched"
  ```

6. Create a patch.
   ```
   $ git format-patch HEAD~ --stdout > somepackage-0.1.2.3.patch
   ```

7. If you have changed the `.cabal` file of the package in your patch , make a copy and rename it from `somepackage.cabal` to `somepackage-0.1.2.3.cabal`.

8. Copy the patch file and the cabal file (if changed) to the `patches` directory in your local clone of your fork of the `ghcvm-hackage` repository.

9. In your `ghcvm-hackage` repository,
   ```
   $ git commit -m "Patched somepackage-0.1.2.3"
   $ git push origin
   ```
10. Submit a pull request to this repository for review.

### Viewing a Patch

When you want to see how a library (say `somepackage-0.1.2.3`) looks with the patches applied:

1. Download the source distribution of that package from Hacakage and extract it.

2. Initialize a git repository in it and apply the patch (after copying it to the directory).
  ```
  $ git init
  $ git apply somepackage-0.1.2.3.patch
  ```

You may wish to modify an existing patch. If so, apply the steps above after Step 2 in [Patching a Library/Patching](#patching).
